no I want to share with you a solution
of problems I've been having and
sourcing decent pivots within the UK for
using them folding knives
basically all I could find was this sort
of thing is these three a so I think
this is half inch you know nice a nicely
made hardened pivots but you know he
just went
they weren't anywhere near big enough
for you know the project that I had so
and I started looking in the states and
you know that's great he had big beefy
pivot so I found a lot of people using
those ones and wanted to try something a
little bit different than obviously
trouble without if you know you pay an
international post and then customs get
their hands on it and decide they want a
piece and then parcel force get it and
basically hold it to you know hold your
stuff to ransom until you pay eight quid
and three weeks later if you're lucky
you eventually get your stuff and I just
didn't want to get into all that so I
scratched my head a bit and I went on a
site called bear in Boy Scout UK I
bought myself them these are oil light
bushings basically phosphor bronze and
you know designed you know for sort of
high-speed applications and I got I mean
they had its selection different sizes
just for this project I decided a male
external buy with a 1/2 in Millwall so
five mil in total and the significance
of that is is that the you know the 5
mil hold down the middle is the young
pilot tapping size for m6 so basically
get one of these you want to wrap it in
something I tried him it was Robert
inner tube and you know like duct tape
and obvious stuff like that but I find
that it you know it didn't grip it
properly or it would you know when I put
it in the clutch Chuck that the teeth of
it would scratch it and make it look
like so I haven't have to hand it
some Kevlar felt I hadn't tried you know
cotton and things like that old leather
that might work but
and I think I've got there some easy
composites like years ago for a
different project they might have Kevlar
felt on eBay I don't know how but
probably other stuff would work blessed
just what I had and popped it in tying
it up just enough so it doesn't move but
obviously you don't want to tighten it
up so much that it changes the it bends
the pivot and then just tapped it in
from the top all the way through which
is surprisingly easy actually cuz I'm
this stuff do you know it's already
lubricated and it just went through like
a dream I did initially use stainless
tube but the trouble I had with that was
the inside was still had meal scale on
and that would blunt my tap really
quickly and then it takes more and more
resistance to yeah you know it's happy
way through in it and it would
eventually and bulge up the sides and it
just just terrible it just wouldn't work
whereas these and I mean he'll come the
tolerances are really spot-on really
well-made and you know they're designed
for this sort of thing so you could try
em stainless or hardened you might have
more luck on me but I found that these
you know I've used this knife
extensively opened and closed it
thousands of times beating on it it's
got a patina going on it's what
scratches on it and I've not had the
slightest issue
it also has sort of a that's quite a
different feel to you know hardened
pivot is somewhat small liquid sort of
feeling it's hard to describe but yeah
very nice
see ya 64 pounds from bearing boys I
don't know if other people are doing
this probably and that I had a bit of a
search and couldn't find anyone it's you
know when you first make it folding
knives and you can't get all the pivots
and it's just it's a stall end point and
you you want to buy a label you know
it's extremely expensive equipment just
to make a few friction folders so I
found this really helpful so if you find
it useful you know feel free to credit
me and thanks for watching just